## comp150-cpd ##

## Week 1 ##
This week starts our official week of lectures. It started with a lecture on Monday about where we discussed our first gaming consoles, the origins of computer and the start of computer language from low-level assembly code to high-level languages like python. The majority of our week was consumed by the ice breaker activity labeled "LEGO: Robot Olympics" the aim was to program our robots to perform a series of activities. We were assigned into random groups to do this. I found myself remaining largely quite for the first day when we were testing the capabilities of our robots. Reflecting now, I realise that remaining silent is the worst way to approach group tasks. As a became more comfortable within my group however we all started to work harder and shared a few laughs which i believe is crucial to a strong team. As this course is seems to be heavily team orientated much like the industry I will need to overcome my reluctance to speak whilst not speaking to much it hold my team back. It will I’ll be difficult to measure my success, but it will be easy to achieve with just a little effort on my own part.
## Week 2 ##

Our week started with a comp 110 lecture on computing principles, in this we learnt certain rules surrounding variables and how to assign them. During this lecture I made mistakes answering the questions we were given. I found myself rushing to answer the questions and as a result making errors such as; not reading the questions properly. I believe by taking a bit time and executing every line of code as the computer would this will not happen again. In the comp 150 lecture on Wednesday we were assigned the task of designing a board game at first there was no time limit but one was later added and as a team we found ourselves with very little time. This resulted in us not being able to produce a working prototype. During a reflection period we identified that this could’ve been avoided by working in parallel. Rather than all work on the same task we should’ve split tasks to achieve a higher productivity overall.  I am going to keep this in mind when we next do a group project.

## Week 3 ##
This week started with a comp 110 lecture, we learnt mainly about pseudocode and flowcharts how and when to use them. We were split in to small groups (2-3) and asked to write a flowchart on how we would log in to facebook. Unfortunately due to my inability to understand my partners ideas i found myself being more inclined to my own ideas of what a flowchart 'should' look like. As a result there were no arrows on our first flowchart making it difficult to understand. In future I will always make an effort to understand others ideas and hear the opinions/ideas of everyone involved before any action is taken. We were set another task during Wednesdays comp 150 lecture. The aim was to produce a prototype of a text game based on random 'idea' cards provided by the lecturer. Keeping in mind the target I set for myself last week, I quickly suggested to split into groups so as to maximise efficiency. The prototype thanks to the groups effort was a very good representation of what the game could've been. Next week my goal is to study at least 2 extra research papers going into more depth and attempt an entry to the wiki.

## Week 4 ##
Like always this week started early on a Monday morning with a comp 110 lecture. This week’s lecture was focused on logic gates. It involved a socrative exercise with immediate right wrong feedback. Due to the nature of the topic any inattention resulted in bad logic, an example being when I decided register myself as present on the learning space system. I missed the explanation of one of the particular logic gates, needless to say I did not answer correctly on socrative. I will make sure this doesn’t happen again. In our comp 150 lecture we were introduced to the group design project for this term. We were tasked to start a handout which is to be presented next week. The handout is on a game design of our choice. Some classmates and I who have previously worked together self-managed into a small group to pitch our ideas and share inspiration. As a three we came up with a solid game design idea which is simple yet leaves massive room for expansion and ingenuity. Once the concept took root I found it hard to look at any other design with more than a passing interest. In reflection this is a huge mistake, I should’ve not only talked to my immediate peers but also everyone in the class. Next week I will perform an informal questionnaire to people outside of the group to get opinions on features and mechanics.

## Week 5 ##
This week’s comp 110 lecture was on ‘algorithm complexities’, in this we learnt how the structure of the algorithm can change the time it takes to execute. For an assignment we were set a series of questions in for the following Monday.  As it turns out I did not answer the questions very well. After the lecture I did not go through the notes and slides provided, I believe this to be the reason I answered them incorrectly. To avoid this, after lectures I will go through any notes and slides provided to concrete any learning done in the lecture. This week we also pitched our game ideas and voted on our peers ideas. My small group were lucky enough to get voted through on the first round of votes. We agreed to talk on Friday night on discord to discuss in more detail the game that we would be working on. Due to other engagements two of the four members weren’t able to make it. This problem while minor now could be very serious if it repeats when deadlines draw near. To avoid this happening again I will impress on my peers the importance of keeping scheduled meetings and to come out before to say if they can’t make it.

## Week 6 ##
Comp 110 lecture was a more practical orientated, with live coding examples involving shortening the main game loop by the addition of ‘object orientated programming’.  The addition of classes, subclasses and functions meant that not only was the main game loop shorter but it also makes it easier to make change the properties of the objects. The logic now is clear but during the lesson I found myself struggling to understand. After going through the notes again and asking my peers I only then understood how it worked. I will do this again in the future, by asking my peers and explaining how I thought it worked not only helped me but also my peers. This week our group was a lot better at organising while no discussions were made through discord we spent a lot of time on Tuesday and Wednesday going through plans for the game. My main problem this week was time management, I found myself working on assignments that aren’t in any time soon and ignoring assignments which are in very shortly. To rectify this, I have made a list of priority for my work to be completed in. By sticking to this it will stop me working on assignments I find more enjoyable and do ones I need to do.

## Week 7 ##
This week presented a new problem for me. For our academic essay this semester we have to think of an original question to then answer. As advised, I spent part of last week contemplating different questions. Finally settling on a question I headed to the lecture in good spirits, after asking friends and lecturers on the day I found I had completely missed what was expected. With the presenting of our questions starting in a few short hours, I had to brainstorm a new question and then research the topic so I would have something to present. In future, before any kind of deadline be it formal or informal I will not only ask peers on how they understood the assignment, but I will also ask the lectures for their opinions on my interpretation to avoid this situation reoccurring. In addition to this whilst trying to complete worksheet D assigned that Monday I found myself falling to distraction, to maintain concentration on tasks that require focus I will make sure I’m in a productive environment. 

##Week 8 ##
Next week sees our first official deadline, as such pressure is mounting to get work done and to finish and polish lines of code. While our project has come a long nicely due to consistently working on it over several weeks, it’s far from done after the peer review from the week before several improvements were suggested. On reflection I regret not implementing the altercations before submitting the code for review from a lecturer. Whilst the feedback from the lecturer was very constructive and helped us polish our code, introducing changes as big as was suggested by our classmates now may ruin the quality of code we achieved. In future implementing changes as soon as possible as appose to doing them just before the deadline will benefit the quality of code. In addition, it will mean professional review of all the code.
